topics/Smiley.md, before:

# Shapes & Colors
p5.js provides many pre-written functions for drawing common shapes & adding colors to them. 

We can make large letters using lines:

![HI lines](images/HI.png)

A smiley face is a set of circles and arcs:

![Smiley face](images/smiley.png)

p5.js has support for a lot of basic shapes that we can combine however/wherever we want!

![Basic shapes](images/otherShapes.png)

## Putting it together
### **Copy ALL of the code from [the smiley demo](smileyDemoCode.md) and run it!**

## Things to try!
[ ] Change some colors
[ ] Make the face, eyes, and/or nose bigger
[ ] Add some freckles
[ ] Change the ORDER of some statements
    - What happens if the call to draw the face is last?!
[ ] Change the sizes/placement of the sample shapes at the bottom

## How does it work?

### Drawing
In order to draw something onto the canvas, we need to know:
- what we want to draw
- where we want to draw it

*What* is typically a shape of some sort (text, circles, lines, etc.).

*Where* is a **coordinate** on the canvas. We define these coordinates as a pair of offsets from the top left corner of the canvas: (x,y).
- **x**: The number of pixels right from the left side of the canvas.
- **y**: The number of pixels down from the top side of the canvas.

For example, in the 200x200 canvas defined above, the top left would be at x=0, y=0. The bottom right would be at x=200, y=200. We can represent this using a coordinate grid *(this is why your notebooks have graph paper)*.

![Sample canvas](images/canvas200_200.PNG)

We provide the coordinate where we want to *start* drawing to draw something at a specific location on the canvas.

To draw the text "Hello East House!" in the top left corner of the canvas (with a small offset right and down), we add statements to set the background to white and draw the text at the coordinates x=25, y=25.

```javascript
function draw() {
    background("White");
    text("Hello East House!", 25, 25);
}
```

![Hello East House](images/HelloEH.PNG)

### Shape functions & parameters
We control how and where each shape is drawn by providing different data values to the function parameters.

![Smiley face with notes](images/smileyNotes.png)

For example, the large "HI" in the image above, is drawn via a series of calls to the `line` command:
```javascript
  // The *line* method needs 4 parameters:
  //    - X for the starting point
  //    - Y for the starting point
  //    - X for the ending point
  //    - Y for the ending point
  line(20, 20, 20, 100);    // H left
  line(60, 20, 60, 100);    // H right
  line(20, 60, 60, 60);	    // H middle
  line(100, 20, 100, 100);  // I - draws a line from (100,20) to (100,100)
```

The smiley face itself is centered on the midpoint of the canvas: x = 200, y = 200. The nose & face are both drawn via circles, but with different widths.

```javascript
  // The *ellipse* method can be used to draw circles and ovals. 
  // Since we just need circles right now, we need 3 parameters:
  //   - The X & Y coordinates of the circle center
  //   - The width (diameter) of the circle
  ellipse(200,200,200);      // Face - draws a circle 200 pixels wide centered at (200, 200)
  ellipse(200,200,15);       // Nose - draws a circle 15 pixels wide centered at (200, 200) 
```

### Colors
Colors are added by calling `fill` with a color name before the statements for drawing specific shapes.

```javascript
  // Change the fill color to black before drawing the eyes
  fill("Black");
  ellipse(160,160,10);       // Left eye
  ellipse(240,160,10);       // Right eye
```

Commit message:

Added heart demo + some reorg

topics/Smiley.md, after:

# Shapes & Colors
p5.js provides many pre-written functions for drawing common shapes & adding colors to them. 

We can make large letters using lines:

![HI lines](images/HI.png)

A smiley face is a set of circles and arcs:

![Smiley face](images/smiley.png)

p5.js has support for a lot of basic shapes that we can combine however/wherever we want!

![Basic shapes](images/otherShapes.png)

## Putting it together
### **Copy ALL of the code from [the smiley demo](smileyDemoCode.md) and run it!**

## How does it work?

### Drawing
In order to draw something onto the canvas, we need to know:
- what we want to draw
- where we want to draw it

*What* is typically a shape of some sort (text, circles, lines, etc.).

*Where* is a **coordinate** on the canvas. We define these coordinates as a pair of offsets from the top left corner of the canvas: (x,y).
- **x**: The number of pixels right from the left side of the canvas.
- **y**: The number of pixels down from the top side of the canvas.

For example, in the 200x200 canvas defined above, the top left would be at x=0, y=0. The bottom right would be at x=200, y=200. We can represent this using a coordinate grid *(this is why your notebooks have graph paper)*.

![Sample canvas](images/canvas200_200.PNG)

We provide the coordinate where we want to *start* drawing to draw something at a specific location on the canvas.

To draw the text "Hello East House!" in the top left corner of the canvas (with a small offset right and down), we add statements to set the background to white and draw the text at the coordinates x=25, y=25.

```javascript
function draw() {
    background("White");
    text("Hello East House!", 25, 25);
}
```

![Hello East House](images/HelloEH.PNG)

### Shape functions & parameters
We control how and where each shape is drawn by providing different data values to the function parameters.

![Smiley face with notes](images/smileyNotes.png)

For example, the large "HI" in the image above, is drawn via a series of calls to the `line` command:
```javascript
  // The *line* method needs 4 parameters:
  //    - X for the starting point
  //    - Y for the starting point
  //    - X for the ending point
  //    - Y for the ending point
  line(20, 20, 20, 100);    // H left
  line(60, 20, 60, 100);    // H right
  line(20, 60, 60, 60);	    // H middle
  line(100, 20, 100, 100);  // I - draws a line from (100,20) to (100,100)
```

The smiley face itself is centered on the midpoint of the canvas: x = 200, y = 200. The nose & face are both drawn via circles, but with different widths.

```javascript
  // The *ellipse* method can be used to draw circles and ovals. 
  // Since we just need circles right now, we need 3 parameters:
  //   - The X & Y coordinates of the circle center
  //   - The width (diameter) of the circle
  ellipse(200,200,200);      // Face - draws a circle 200 pixels wide centered at (200, 200)
  ellipse(200,200,15);       // Nose - draws a circle 15 pixels wide centered at (200, 200) 
```

### Colors
Colors are added by calling `fill` with a color name before the statements for drawing specific shapes.

```javascript
  // Change the fill color to black before drawing the eyes
  fill("Black");
  ellipse(160,160,10);       // Left eye
  ellipse(240,160,10);       // Right eye
```

## Things to try!
[ ] Change some colors
[ ] Make the face, eyes, and/or nose bigger
[ ] Add some freckles
[ ] Change the ORDER of some statements
    - What happens if the call to draw the face is last?!
[ ] Change the sizes/placement of the sample shapes at the bottom
[ ] Implement the heart example from the [Getting Started](GettingStarted.md) page
    - Draw out the layout in your notebook
    - What shapes do you need?
    - What are their coordinates/sizes?
    - *[See a solution here](HeartExample.md)*
